---
layout: post
title: "다이렉트X ; 메쉬 로드"
date: 2008-05-01 20:32:34
categories: [이글루스 백업, "2008-05"]
---

{% raw %}
열라 쉽다 ;;;  
이렇게 단순할수가.  

//-----------------------------------------------------------------------------  
// File: Matrices.cpp  
//  
// Desc: Now that we know how to create a device and render some 2D vertices,  
//       this tutorial goes the next step and renders 3D geometry. To deal with  
//       3D geometry we need to introduce the use of 4x4 matrices to transform  
//       the geometry with translations, rotations, scaling, and setting up our  
//       camera.  
//  
//       Geometry is defined in model space. We can move it (translation),  
//       rotate it (rotation), or stretch it (scaling) using a world transform.  
//       The geometry is then said to be in world space. Next, we need to  
//       position the camera, or eye point, somewhere to look at the geometry.  
//       Another transform, via the view matrix, is used, to position and  
//       rotate our view. With the geometry then in view space, our last  
//       transform is the projection transform, which "projects" the 3D scene  
//       into our 2D viewport.  
//  
//       Note that in this tutorial, we are introducing the use of D3DX, which  
//       is a set of helper utilities for D3D. In this case, we are using some  
//       of D3DX's useful matrix initialization functions. To use D3DX, simply  
//       include <d3dx9.h> and link with d3dx9.lib.  
//  
// Copyright (c) Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.  
//-----------------------------------------------------------------------------  
#include <Windows.h>  
#include <mmsystem.h>  
#include <d3dx9.h>  
#pragma warning( disable : 4996 ) // disable deprecated warning   
#include <strsafe.h>  
#pragma warning( default : 4996 )

//-----------------------------------------------------------------------------  
// Global variables  
//-----------------------------------------------------------------------------  
LPDIRECT3D9             g\_pD3D       = NULL; // Used to create the D3DDevice  
LPDIRECT3DDEVICE9       g\_pd3dDevice = NULL; // Our rendering device  
//LPDIRECT3DVERTEXBUFFER9 g\_pVB        = NULL; // Buffer to hold vertices  
//LPDIRECT3DINDEXBUFFER9 g\_pIB        = NULL; // Buffer to hold vertices  
ID3DXMesh \*mesh = 0;

//-----------------------------------------------------------------------------  
// Name: InitD3D()  
// Desc: Initializes Direct3D  
//-----------------------------------------------------------------------------  
HRESULT InitD3D( HWND hWnd )  
{  
    // Create the D3D object.  
    if( NULL == ( g\_pD3D = Direct3DCreate9( D3D\_SDK\_VERSION ) ) )  
        return E\_FAIL;

    // Set up the structure used to create the D3DDevice  
    D3DPRESENT\_PARAMETERS d3dpp;  
    ZeroMemory( &d3dpp, sizeof(d3dpp) );  
    d3dpp.Windowed = TRUE;  
    d3dpp.SwapEffect = D3DSWAPEFFECT\_DISCARD;  
    d3dpp.BackBufferFormat = D3DFMT\_UNKNOWN;

    // Create the D3DDevice  
    if( FAILED( g\_pD3D->CreateDevice( D3DADAPTER\_DEFAULT, D3DDEVTYPE\_HAL, hWnd,  
                                      D3DCREATE\_SOFTWARE\_VERTEXPROCESSING,  
                                      &d3dpp, &g\_pd3dDevice ) ) )  
    {  
        return E\_FAIL;  
    }

    // Turn off culling, so we see the front and back of the triangle  
    g\_pd3dDevice->SetRenderState( D3DRS\_CULLMODE, D3DCULL\_NONE );  
 g\_pd3dDevice->SetRenderState( D3DRS\_SHADEMODE, D3DSHADE\_FLAT );

    // Turn off D3D lighting, since we are providing our own vertex colors  
    g\_pd3dDevice->SetRenderState( D3DRS\_LIGHTING, FALSE );

 //D3DXCreateBox (g\_pd3dDevice, 2,2,3,&mesh,0);  
 //D3DXCreateTeapot(g\_pd3dDevice,&mesh,0);  
 //D3DXCreateSphere (g\_pd3dDevice,2,10,10,&mesh,0);  
 //D3DXCreateCylinder (g\_pd3dDevice,3,3,5,10,5,&mesh,0);  
 //D3DXCreatePolygon (g\_pd3dDevice,3.3f,5,&mesh,0);  
 D3DXCreateTorus (g\_pd3dDevice,0.5f,2.0f,10,30,&mesh,0);

    return S\_OK;  
}

//-----------------------------------------------------------------------------  
// Name: InitGeometry()  
// Desc: Creates the scene geometry  
//-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

//-----------------------------------------------------------------------------  
// Name: Cleanup()  
// Desc: Releases all previously initialized objects  
//-----------------------------------------------------------------------------  
VOID Cleanup()  
{  
   // if( g\_pVB != NULL )  
     //   g\_pVB->Release();

    if( g\_pd3dDevice != NULL )  
        g\_pd3dDevice->Release();

    if( g\_pD3D != NULL )  
        g\_pD3D->Release();  
}

//-----------------------------------------------------------------------------  
// Name: SetupMatrices()  
// Desc: Sets up the world, view, and projection transform matrices.  
//-----------------------------------------------------------------------------  
VOID SetupMatrices()  
{  
    // For our world matrix, we will just rotate the object about the y-axis.  
    D3DXMATRIXA16 matWorld;  
 D3DXMATRIXA16 matTransform;  
 D3DXMATRIXA16 matRotate;

 D3DXMatrixIdentity(&matWorld);   
   
    g\_pd3dDevice->SetTransform( D3DTS\_WORLD, &matWorld );

    // Set up our view matrix. A view matrix can be defined given an eye point,  
    // a point to lookat, and a direction for which way is up. Here, we set the  
    // eye five units back along the z-axis and up three units, look at the  
    // origin, and define "up" to be in the y-direction.  
    D3DXVECTOR3 vEyePt( 0.0f, 3.0f,-10.0f );  
    D3DXVECTOR3 vLookatPt( 0.0f, 0.0f, 0.0f );  
    D3DXVECTOR3 vUpVec( 0.0f, 1.0f, 0.0f );  
    D3DXMATRIXA16 matView;  
    D3DXMatrixLookAtLH( &matView, &vEyePt, &vLookatPt, &vUpVec );  
    g\_pd3dDevice->SetTransform( D3DTS\_VIEW, &matView );

    // For the projection matrix, we set up a perspective transform (which  
    // transforms geometry from 3D view space to 2D viewport space, with  
    // a perspective divide making objects smaller in the distance). To build  
    // a perpsective transform, we need the field of view (1/4 pi is common),  
    // the aspect ratio, and the near and far clipping planes (which define at  
    // what distances geometry should be no longer be rendered).  
    D3DXMATRIXA16 matProj;  
    D3DXMatrixPerspectiveFovLH( &matProj, D3DX\_PI/4, 1.0f, 1.0f, 100.0f );  
    g\_pd3dDevice->SetTransform( D3DTS\_PROJECTION, &matProj );  
}

//-----------------------------------------------------------------------------  
// Name: Render()  
// Desc: Draws the scene  
//-----------------------------------------------------------------------------  
VOID Render()  
{  
    // Clear the backbuffer to a black color  
    g\_pd3dDevice->Clear( 0, NULL, D3DCLEAR\_TARGET, D3DCOLOR\_XRGB(0,0,0), 1.0f, 0 );

    // Begin the scene  
    if( SUCCEEDED( g\_pd3dDevice->BeginScene() ) )  
    {  
        // Setup the world, view, and projection matrices  
        SetupMatrices();

  /\*

        // Render the vertex buffer contents  
        g\_pd3dDevice->SetStreamSource( 0, g\_pVB, 0, sizeof(CUSTOMVERTEX) );  
        g\_pd3dDevice->SetFVF( D3DFVF\_CUSTOMVERTEX );  
        g\_pd3dDevice->DrawPrimitive( D3DPT\_TRIANGLESTRIP, 0, 1 );

  \*/  
  mesh -> DrawSubset(0);

        // End the scene  
        g\_pd3dDevice->EndScene();  
    }

    // Present the backbuffer contents to the display  
    g\_pd3dDevice->Present( NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL );  
}

//-----------------------------------------------------------------------------  
// Name: MsgProc()  
// Desc: The window's message handler  
//-----------------------------------------------------------------------------  
LRESULT WINAPI MsgProc( HWND hWnd, UINT msg, WPARAM wParam, LPARAM lParam )  
{  
    switch( msg )  
    {  
        case WM\_DESTROY:  
            Cleanup();  
            PostQuitMessage( 0 );  
            return 0;  
    }

    return DefWindowProc( hWnd, msg, wParam, lParam );  
}

//-----------------------------------------------------------------------------  
// Name: WinMain()  
// Desc: The application's entry point  
//-----------------------------------------------------------------------------  
INT WINAPI wWinMain( HINSTANCE hInst, HINSTANCE, LPWSTR, INT )  
{  
    // Register the window class  
    WNDCLASSEX wc = { sizeof(WNDCLASSEX), CS\_CLASSDC, MsgProc, 0L, 0L,  
                      GetModuleHandle(NULL), NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL,  
                      L"D3D Tutorial", NULL };  
    RegisterClassEx( &wc );

    // Create the application's window  
    HWND hWnd = CreateWindow( L"D3D Tutorial", L"D3D Tutorial 03: Matrices",  
                              WS\_OVERLAPPEDWINDOW, 100, 100, 256, 256,  
                              NULL, NULL, wc.hInstance, NULL );

    // Initialize Direct3D  
    if( SUCCEEDED( InitD3D( hWnd ) ) )  
    {  
        // Create the scene geometry  
            // Show the window  
            ShowWindow( hWnd, SW\_SHOWDEFAULT );  
            UpdateWindow( hWnd );

            // Enter the message loop  
            MSG msg;  
            ZeroMemory( &msg, sizeof(msg) );  
            while( msg.message!=WM\_QUIT )  
            {  
                if( PeekMessage( &msg, NULL, 0U, 0U, PM\_REMOVE ) )  
                {  
                    TranslateMessage( &msg );  
                    DispatchMessage( &msg );  
                }  
                else  
                    Render();  
            }  
      }

    UnregisterClass( L"D3D Tutorial", wc.hInstance );  
    return 0;  
}
{% endraw %}